---
layout: page
title:  "Book Review: Quiet - by Susan Cain"
breadcrumb: true
categories:
    - bookreview
tags:
    - blog
    - content
    - post
    - post format
header:
    image_fullwidth: gallery-example-1.jpg
---

**Summary**

Excellent insights about introversion - great information both if you are an introvert, or you have to deal with introverts. Which is pretty much everyone.

**My notes**

Introversion is a preference for environments that are not overstimulating.

Most leading in a corporation is done in small meetings and at a distance.

Introverts are more likely to say that they can express the "real me" online.

Some people wish to fit harmoniously into the group, and others to be independent of it. Often the most highly creative people are in the latter category.

It's only when you're alone that you can engage in Deliberate Practice.

Exceptionally creative people often on the social margins during adolescence, because intense curiosity or focused interest seems odd.

Sensitive people tend to speak softly because that's how they prefer others to communicate with them.

Introverts are much better at making a plan, staying with a plan, being very disciplined.

Extroverts are better than introverts at handling information overload. Introverts' reflectiveness uses up a lot of cognitive capacity.

Introverts think before they act, stay on task longer, give up less easily, and work more accurately.

Introverts are capable of acting like extroverts for the sake of work they consider important, people they love, or anything they value highly.

Venting doesn't soothe anger; it fuels it. 
