---
layout: page
title:  "Book Review: The War of Art - by Steven Pressfield"
breadcrumb: true
categories:
    - bookreview
tags:
    - blog
    - content
    - post
    - post format
header:
    image_fullwidth: gallery-example-1.jpg
---

**Summary**

Motivation for writing, painting, or whatever other form your art might take.

**My notes**

Are you a writer who doesn’t write, a painter who doesn’t paint, an entrepreneur who never starts a venture? Then you know what “Resistance” is. 

Resistance comes when you do: Any act that rejects immediate gratification in favor of long-term growth, health, or integrity. Any act that derives from our higher nature instead of our lower.

Resistance seems to come from outside ourselves. We locate it in spouses, jobs, bosses, kids.

Resistance arises from within. It is self-generated and self-perpetuated.

The more important a call or action is to our soul’s evolution, the more Resistance we will feel toward pursuing it.

Individuals who are realized in their own lives almost never criticize others. If they speak at all, it is to offer encouragement.

Rationalization: a series of plausible, rational justifications for why we shouldn’t do our work.

The qualities that define us as professionals?
1) We show up every day.
2) We show up no matter what.
3) We stay on the job all day. Our minds may wander, but our bodies remain at the wheel.
6) We accept remuneration for our labor. We’re not here for fun. We work for money.
7) We do not overidentify with our jobs.
8) We master the technique of our jobs.
